Hello and welcome everybody. My name is
Julian Martinez, senior developer
advocate and common man here at SDF and
I'm super excited to get today's session
kicked off where we're going to dive
into the basics of building full stack
DAPs using Stellar smart contracts.,
so this is going to be kind of like a
freestyle like ad hoc session. I don't
have any slides or anything., but we
will be using the getting started
docs as well as an examp
a common example damp that you may
have seen building stuff in your
journey throughout the ecosystem. We're
going to be using none other than the
Sorbon example d. All right, so a couple
of repos here or a couple of links here.
First things first, the getting
started QR code or the QR code that will
take you to the link of the getting
started section of the docs. And then
later, maybe in the second half when we
start signing transactions, we'll
transition over to actually cloning the
Sorbon example DAP. And then we'll kind
of like dive into the ins and outs of
that one. but for now, we'll get
started with a very simple front-end
readonly function call from our hello
world contract. Now, let's backtrack a
little bit., to get started, you're
going to need to actually install the
Rust tool chain or it's going to allow
you to use tools like cargo and other
Rust tools available in the tool
chain. The second one is going to or the
second command here is going to tell the
compiler to compile the Rust smart
contracts into WASM. And the third
command is going to install the Stellar
CLI. So, a little bit of a refresher
from the last session if you haven't
already done this., so you can
actually scan the QR code at the bottom
left right here as I stated earlier to
kind of like help guide you along
throughout this next 30 minutes to an
hour or so.
All right. Now, I'm going to make it
aware that I can't see you guys in
the chat because I am using a thirdparty
app, but I'm going to go ahead and get
right into it., so we're actually
going to clone a pre-existing kind of
like project. And for this we're going
to run the command Stellar contract
init
contract init. We're going to specify
the directories here. Then we're going
to create a space. Then we're going to
say front end template and we're going
to say https
forward forward slash and we're going to
say github
github.comstellar
and we're going to say sorbonastro
and we're going to say Soroban astro
template. Cool. No demo effect today. As
you can see that went in to the
directory that I'm working from. All
right. So let's see what happened here.
We are initializing the project at the
root directory. we have a new cargo
toml file which actually kind of like
injects a compatible Soroban SDK into our
project. Here we have example which
we're going to need to edit a little
bit later. We have our source folder
which has some components in it. Right.
, you should see some things that
maybe you recognize, maybe you don't.
, you have this card file here, which
is just basically like a cool little
front-end component that you'll see a
little bit later., the the pages file
here kind of like holds all the main
logic that you'll be seeing a little
bit later as well., but yeah, so
let's just go ahead and keep working
through the tutorial here. So, first
things first, we have this NV example
file. Now you can either copy this over
and make a new one or just edit the
existing title to just say end. And
we're going to change some of the
parameters here. So you see the
standalone or the public sorbar network
passphrase is actually going to target
the standalone network. so we're
going to erase this value and we're
going to go ahead and inject the Soraon
endpoint here. So, public Soroban network
passphrase or excuse me, not the Sorbon
RP we won't be injecting the Sorbon
URL here, but the passphrase instead.
So, we have test SDF network
September 2015 is the passphrase, this
correct passphrase for testn net. Then
we're going to go ahead and change our
public Soroban RPC URL to the correct
endpoint here which is https
semicolon/sorbond
testnetstellar.org.
Okay. And we already have a Sorbon
account called Alice and we're going to
just specify the network to be test
net. All right.
So let's go ahead and clear this out.
All right. So, what do we have here?
Okay. We're looking at our we're
looking at our what's it called? Our
project so far. And we've also updated
our environment file. So, what we're
going to do next is actually just
install some of the dependencies. We're
going to do that by running mpm install.
All right. So, let's go ahead and take a
look at what's happening here. All
right. So, nothing special here. We're
just running mpm install installing
the the dependencies for the project.
Sorry. So, we're going to go ahead and
run mpm run init for the next for the
next step. And what this is going to do
is it's actually going to run the
initialize.js
file. So, while this is loading,
let's just go ahead and kind of just
like take a look at what's happening
here., all right. So, we're
processing the public key,, right?
And then we're actually going to use
that to deploy the,, the smart
contract. So, we're going to use that as
the signer,, to deploy to pay the fee
for deploying the smart contract itself.
All right. So, we're using the CLI
command,, the Stellar CLI. All right.
So, we're going to say we're going to
generate a new account, which we defined
here, right? Sorbon account equals
Alice. So we're going to say Stellar
keys generate and then we're going to
say Alice. But we've already done that.
So you can think of this function
here as kind of like recursively or
redoing the step where we fund an
account that we would pay for the
deployment fees with. but we've
already generated that. All right. And
then we're going to build the files.
Right. So what does that mean? We're
going to use Stellar CLI contract build
which is going to compile the the
smart contract files right again in
contract down to its WASM format. It's
going to store it in the it's going
to store it in the target directory
here. Next, it's going to use so
Stellar CLI contract deploy. It's going
to specify the WASM file, right? And
then it's going to deploy that right
to test net. once it takes once it
deploys the contract to test net it's
going to record the contract ID and then
it's going to build the TypeScript
bindings. So you see here
contract bindings TypeScript contract ID
which is going to be the previous ID
that was recorded and let me see if I
can get here just to the function
itself. So you see CLI contract
bindings TypeScript contract ID is going
to be the ID we recorded and then it's
going to store that in the directory
name which we've defined here in
packages and just as a quick kind of
overview you see this function bind all
and there's also I think there is a
deploy all yep so you can have
multiple projects within this directory
for example you can import the
incrementer contract or incrementer
project here. It'll actually compile
that contract, deploy that as well, and
create the TypeScript bindings for that.
But for this, we're going to just use
the Hello World the Hello World
contract. All right. So, let's go ahead
and take a look at the source
the source directory here. And then
let's take a look at the Astro page.
Cool. So, let's just just go down from
top to bottom. we see import card,
right? And here's just like a simple
kind of just card that that holds all of
the data. just makes it easier to
like contain some of the data that
we're trying to illustrate. Here we see
import hello world from contracts hello
world. Now
this part is pretty important because
you see here that we're creating a
client and we've defined this client
using certain parameters. So like what
exactly does that mean? Well, when we
create a client, you can think of
this as creating like a smart contract
object. when we created the
TypeScript bindings, we actually
compiled that data to its own
package, right? So what does that mean?
Let's just go here into the package.json
file. You see workspaces packages,
right? And let's go back into the
initialize.js file., if you see here,
contract bindings typescript output
directory directory name is just going
to be the name of the contract
packages and then alias. So you see here
that we're ingesting the packages
directory. and what when you call the
command contract bindings or Stellar
contract bindings, you're creating
ondemand npm packages for the smart
contract itself. So let's go back into
index contracts hello world import
any as the client or as client from
hello world. Now let's dive into hello
world itself.
So you see here in pack in the packages
directory under hello world in the
dist directory. Let's just go down
line by line and see exactly what's
happening. you see some imports
coming from the Stellar SDK. Well,
that's because you actually
you create your own node module sets
for the Stellar SD or for the smart
contract here that should import the
node modules from or the Stellar SDK
node module. here you can see is
clearly titled at Stellar/Stellar
SDK.
A cool thing here is that it actually
records the network data. So you see if
you're using test net as a as a point
of data for your for your syntax here
you can actually reference network
passphrase and contract ID which we do
in the when we're creating the client
object
and then moving forward you see that
we're defining all the functions here
along with the with the arguments. So
you see hello only contains one argument
which is two and it's defined as a
string. So, this makes it really easy to
kind of just like create front-end
components that leverage the the
methods on these smart contracts
themselves. the bindings function
that comes with the Stellar CLI makes it
easy to transform the smart contracts
over from Rust version over to the
front-end version. after it converts the
code to the JavaScript or TypeScript
output, you also have these like
backup or like the these supporting
SDKs to communicate with the Stellar
blockchain all abstracted away from your
development process, saving you a bunch
of cycles. Long story short, it's a
really good tool. I love it. I love
using the Sorbon or Stellar smart
contract bindings personally and
yeah, it just really saves a lot of
time.
So let's do a recap of what happened
in in line four. We're importing
hello world from contracts hello world.
and here you could see that we're
using the client to define hello world.
Right? Let's dive into the hello world
directory a little bit. As you can
see here again we're we have our own
node module for the smart contract and
it in it includes the Stellar SDK which
is going to help communicate with the
Stellar blockchain. also contains
information about the network., and
last but not least, it contains all the
methods included in the hello world
smart contract. All right, so let's go
ahead and see how we're going to
leverage this. So you see const result
equals await hello world.hello.
All right, so simple enough. We're
awaiting a a function here and the
method is hello. We're going to define
the the front end or we're going to find
the message as two. All right. So, we've
already run the we've already run the
initialize function. So, let's go ahead
and run mpm run. And we're going to say
dev. I think this is going to run the
initialize function again.
All right.
All
right. 4321.
All right.
Let me go ahead and drag this on over
here.
Make sure. Okay. Cool. Cool. So you guys
can see
you guys should be able to see the
screen here. All right. So we see hello
you. To get started open the directory
source pages page and tweak the welcome
to Astro message above. I don't think
that really applies to us. So con result
equals await hello world. Hello to you.
Let's say hello and world.
An error occurred. Must be a host value.
So
believe it was the exclamation mark. All
right, cool. So we have hello world. So
we're actually able to change that.
this is we're able to do this because
we're we're not actually making a call
to the back end. So, we're just using a
like we're just using a simple
JavaScript kind of like manipulation and
we're able to see the changes
immediately thanks to Astro. so this
is kind I don't know if this is exactly
exclusive to Astro but this is like a
way that you can easily test the
outputs of your functions. For example,
in this case, we we changed the hello
world call the two argument from world.
We can even say like Stellar,
right? So, it's a good way to test your
functions on the front end. Very
lightweight, doesn't involve any
communication with the Stellar
blockchain, right? So, that's a quick
intro, but let's take it a step further
because that's not all we want to do
here, right?, we actually want to
take this a step further first by seeing
if we can read some wallet data. So, I'm
going to open up Frraider. All right.
So, you can see I'm connected to the
test net. You can see my address is
G75ZKTV.
Okay, cool. So, let's go ahead and see
how we can connect our wallet data to
the front end here., and we're going
to use Freighter.
So, first things first, we're actually
going to install the dependency. I don't
think we have it yet. We're going to say
mpm install@Stellar
for slash freighter API.
And here we're going to create a
component. We're going to call this
connect. And oops, connect. And we're
going to
one last time connect freighter and
we're going to say dot astro. And for
this we're going to create a couple of
things. We're going to create a div and
then we're going to give it a style and
then we're going to give it a script.
So, we're going to say we're going to
say div
and we're going to say id equals
freighter
equals freighter.
Wrap and we're going to say
All right, stick with me y'all. Class
and we're going to say equals.
Let's see if co-pilot saves me here.
We're gonna say Arya live
equals and we're gonna say
live.
Cool.
We're going to close that div out or
we're going to keep that div open.
Actually, we're not going to close that
out yet. And here we're going to give
another div. We're going to say div
div
class class and we're going to say
ellipses
here. We're going to close this out.
Then we're going to say
we're going to say button.
Yeah, let's close that out. I'm going to
say
data
connect Arya
controls
area controls and we're going to say
equals
freighter
freighter wrap
connect
and it should say button.
This needs to be in quotes.
Should be good so far. Cool. So, we're
going to create some some divs here,
and we're going to get set up with our
our kind of like environment, if you
will, our front-end environment for
hosting the little area that we will
contain the the wallet information
in. So, let's go ahead and give this a
style real quick. So, let's say style
and we're going to want a wrap, right?
Going to say wrap. And we're going to
say
text align.
Text align. And sure, why not give it a
center text align? That's cool. We're
going to close this out here. And we
need to bring this down.
Bring this down a little bit. Okay.
Okay. And then we're going to give the
ellipsus
the ellipsus a some values here.
And we're going to edit the line height.
Line height is going to be about 2.7
and here we're going to say margin. This
is going to be auto.
And here we're going to say max width
equals 12mm.
Here we're going to say overflow is
hidden.
Here we're going to say text overflow
text overflow and we're going to say
ellipses and we're going to say text
align
and text align equals center. And last
but la not least but we're going to say
whites space no wrap. All right. So now
we've got our style defined. Let's keep
on moving forward., thanks for
sticking with me so far. Let's go ahead
and define this script. All right,
so we're going to get into some of the
logic behind using the or some logic
that involves using the freighter
API. So, first things first, we're going
to go and define this the imports that
we need. So, we're going to say import
and we're going to say we need is
allowed, we need allowed, we need get
user info.
All right, let's go ahead and dive into
some what this one actually means.
So, here is where you're going to get
the public key from the Freigher API.
So, you actually have to have Freigher
installed on your local machine on in
your browser for this to work., and
you can actually do that by visiting the
Freigher website., there should be
some download links to quickly add it to
Chrome. But here is the function that's
going to get the public key that we will
be using to we're going to be using
this function to show the public key on
the front end of the DAP. All right. So,
now that we have that imported, let's go
ahead and keep moving forward. So we
have const wrap equals equals
document get element by id and no we're
just going to say query selector
we're going to say
query selector freighter wrap. We
actually want the to be hashtag right
there. Okay cool. we're going to say
const button query selector data
connect. Here we're going to say const
we're going to say const ellipsis
equals
we're going to say document
and for this we're actually going to say
document as well document query query
selector ellipsis
ellipses we're going to say
at
freigher rap
at freigher rap and ellipses. Cool. All
right. So, we have our wrap defined, our
ellipses defined, and our button
defined., let's go ahead and get into
defining some of these functions here.
We're going to say async function,,
get pk get pk. It's going to take in any
arguments., let's go ahead and see
what what is here for us from from
copilot. This is definitely not right.
, but very close. So, we're going to
say const
and we're going to say
public key await user info. Too easy.
And we're going to return the public
key. All right. Now, we're going to say
AC function
and we're going to say set logged.
Set
set logged in. Okay. And we're going
to take in one argument. That's going to
be the public key.
public key is going to be a string.
Okay.
All right. Set logged in. Public key is
going to be of the type string. Now,
we're going to define some of the
functions here.
We're going to say the inner html is
going to be going to say signed in as
right.
[Applause]
why not? We're going to say signed in
with and we're going to define this
value here as the public key value. Is
that not correct? signed in with and
then oh I need to close this out. Too
easy.
Using the wrong kind. There we go.
Cool. Wrap. Okay. Okay. And then we have
here we're going to say
ellipsis
title and we're going to say equals
public key. Cool. Ellipsis html ellipsis
enter html ellip oops
ellipsis.
Set title.
Do we not have this? Ellipsus
ellip
ellipsus. Sorry y'all. Quick spell
check. Going to fix some stuff here.
Ellipsis.
O.
All right. What do we got here? What do
we got here? Div class.
Why is this failing? Lift this title
public key.
All right, let's just move forward
because I did have some errors earlier
that I was just kind of working
through. So, let's say
but these errors did not affect
the output. let's let's just see what
happens. Let's keep working through it
and see what happens. So, as you can see
here, Copilot has created a handy dandy
function to complete the script. We're
going to say is if is allowed is
true. We're going to say we're going
to set the constant. We're going to set
the public key to
con public key. We're going to await
that. We're going to get the public key
there. We're going to say if
if public key we're going to say set
logged in to the public key value or
else we're going to we're going to wrap
the inner html and we're going to say
freighter is locked. So
let's just go ahead and do this here.
If public key set public key logged in
and we're going to say
here you can just kind of go in with
astro and just type in the turnary
statement itself. You say else
wrap enter html. Sure. We'll say error
getting public key. Why not? Okay. If
public key and we're going to say set
set logged in public key html. Okay.
Okay. And then we're going to say else
here we're going to say
yeah. So we have some some good legs to
stand on here. We have button add event
listener right click async function.
That's true. This is all good. I'll
just get rid of this.
Maybe that wasn't as good as I thought.
Button add event listener. And let's say
going to disable that button.
equals true. Kind of want that button
to disappear real quick. then we want
to say await
set allowed. Then we want the constant
public key to to be u to be the return
data of the function that we call
earlier. And we're going to say set
logged in public key. All right. So we
should be all cleaned up here.
All right.
And again, I am having some issues on my
side with the like the the errors and
things like that,
but let's just go ahead and see if this
runs anyway. All right. So, let's go
ahead and run dev one more time.
Again,
thank you all so much for being here
with me., and thanks for for hanging
out. I know these things kind of like
run on sometimes. I never expect them to
go as long as they do, but they always
exceed my expectations., and let's
see. Let's see what happened here.
All right, let's go. 4 3 2 1. Doesn't
look like that was implemented because
we never went to the index page. Right.
So, next up, we have to actually import
our connect our connect freighter
button. So, let's say import
and we'll say connect freighter from
components connect freighter.astro.
And we're going to just kind of like
plug this in somewhere.
I don't know. We'll plug it in right
here. We'll say connect freighter. Very
cool. Greeting. All right. So, you
should see signed in as GA75F.
Again, let's go ahead and see exactly
what's happening here. Connect
freighter. Again, you see in the script
side, we're importing is allowed, set
allowed, and get user info. the way
that we're illustrating or like showing
the public key is that we're saying
this async function set logged in. We're
saying that inner HTML is going to be
the public key, right? And all the
public key is is the function get user
info. All right, so that's a little bit
about defining the functions on the
right using Astro to kind of demonstrate
demonstrate some some calls, right?
without calling the blockchain and then
also integrating Freigher Stellar's
kind of like primary wallet. Well,
Stellar doesn't have a primary wallet,
so to speak, but the in-house developed
wallet, Frraider. this we went over
how to connect that to the front end
itself, and we see that being reflected
here. All right, so you guys have been
with me for about 30 minutes. but
we're going to keep it going. All right,
we're going to we're going to keep the
session going. As I said, every time I
do one of these, I kind of like
exceeds my expectations. So, we're going
to switch gears a little bit. We're
actually going to go to a more advanced
smart contract kind of like
undertaking, if you will.
And what we're going to do is I'm going
to share with you the Sora or Stellar,
excuse me, example DAP. So, let's say
Stellar
[Applause]
example DAP.
All right. And I'll just do a quick
little note
note bash.sh.
All right. So, if you want to clone the
example dab, all you have to do is run
get clone and you're going to say this
guy right here.
I don't have the I don't have the
link handy., but you can clone the
example DAP by going to this going to
this link right here.
And I guess I could show you guys what's
going on.
here.
All right. Here's the Sorbon example
DAP., you could see that it has a
readme. It needs to be updated actually,
but it's a full stack boilerplate DAP
that we aim for you guys to use this to
create your own crowdfund applications.
It's got a a bunch of use cases
particular to public goods funding
and we'll see how we can kind of
tweak this to aim it towards a project
outside of the original use case which
is to raise money for an art
distribution and we'll see what we
could do here. So without further ado,
let's just go ahead and kind of like
dive into it. Again, if you're
interested in following along, you can
run the command get clone and then
plug in the link here. And if you want
to just check out the repo, you can
check it out at the Stellar
repo/sorabondex
example DAP.
All right. Now, this is one of my
favorite DAPs because it's one of the
DAPs that I learned very early on. so
I hope my enthusiasm spills over and
through the airwaves, so to speak. And
yeah, hope you guys learned something
today. So let's go ahead and dive right
in with the smart contract. First things
first, you see some attributes you may
be familiar with from the last session.
Contract, contract implementation
is a new one. Contract type is a new one
maybe token address and into val
and then vow. So, we'll explain we'll
dive into these as we go through the
contract, but I may gloss over a few
things for the sake of time.
Here you see the public enumeration data
key and this is where you're going to
hold a bulk of the keys for the contract
storage. remember as from the last
session, each key has a value and each
value is defined as a certain type.
deadline, recipient started, target
token, user address, and recipient
claimed are our keys. And we'll go
ahead and we'll go ahead and see what
different types belong to these
values a little bit later. moving on,
you see that we have the state of the
smart contract here and it's just going
to be defined by three values, running,
success, and expired.
Now, let me do a quick backtrack. I know
I said that this example DAP was for a
crowdfunding application and it is.
so some of the components behind the
smart contract are that it has a
deadline for the campaign to run. It has
a recipient to receive the deposits
for the campaign, the crowdfund
campaign. the token that it's going
to it's going to receive for
contributions. It's going to keep track
of the users that contributed. And then
it's going to give some boolean values
of whether or not the target has been
reached, if the recipient claimed, etc.
And these states define the or this
enumeration defines the state of the
campaign. So it can be either running,
it can be successful, if it didn't reach
the target, then it will be expired.
All right. So we have our getter and
we have our getter functions here, also
known as utility functions. they're
just retrieving certain data here. You
see that we're retrieving data from the
ledger. we're getting the time stamp
and here you see that we're just
retrieving the value for it for
some of the keys. All right. So these
are our getter functions and we also
have our setter functions which are
mostly defined here but they're
called actually in the initialize
function.
All right. So let's go ahead and take a
look at the initialize function.
You see public function initialize
passing in the recipient u value which
is an address deadline value which is a
U64 target amount which is going to be
the amount that you want to get into the
deposit or get into the campaign via
deposits. the token address which the
address of the token that's being
transferred from the depositor wallet to
the crowdfund contract.
All right.
All right. So, let's go ahead and
let's go ahead and just step right
through. So, first things first, we're
going to assert that the storage the
contract storage does not already have a
recipient because if it does, that would
say or that would tell the user that
this contract is already initialized.
Contract can't be initialized. If you
want to call the initialize function,
we're just going through our setters
here. You see esto storage instance set
and we're setting values to all all of
those keys. you see recipient
recipient claimed started deadline
target and token. All of these keys are
being attached values that we're
passing in through the initialize
function. Cool. Good to go there. and
this smart contract actually consists of
two other functions that are kind of
like the crux of the functionality
behind this entire contract success
really. So this is the deposit function
takes in two arguments user and
amount. Now I want to quickly highlight
on line 218 you see user.require off.
Now, one cool thing about Sorbon the
Sorbon Rust dialect is that we actually
have an authorization framework kind
of installed or implemented rather in
the Sorbon SDK. so what does this
mean? This means that the user has to
have the address that is making the
call. If I am user A, I can't pass in
address B for this call. And this
require off method ensures that the
wallet being used to make the call is
actually is actually the one making the
call. This cannot be another wallet's
address. All right. So, a simple way to
assert that the wallet making the call
is using the same value as the
address. All right. So, you you're
saying the assertion here, the amount
has to be higher than zero. Too easy.
we're doing some other checks here
stating that the campaign is still
running. The sale isn't running. Can't
make a deposit.
all right. So next up, let's take a
look at some more interesting logic
here. we're getting the user deposit
balance, etc. But let's take a look at
line 230. So you see line 230 let client
equal token client new
sorry where was I
see let client equal token client new
where was I okay let client token client
new environment and then token ID all
right so this is cool because you see
token right and this is actually a
crate that is implemented into the
Sorbon SDK that allows users to kind of
leverage this this functionality as an
interface. So you see token right that's
the SDK that is the that's that's the
logic behind the token contract the
Soroban or Stellar token contract you see
this client here which allows you to
kind of create like an interface to lay
over a contract address new obviously
creating a new one and we're laying
the token interface over the token ID
so we're going to call different
functions via this token interface at
a different address so we're actually
going to be making a crosscontract call.
Cool. Now you see client transfer,
right? And we're transferring from the
user to the current contract address and
the amount. next you see contract
balance. Get the balance. and then
we're emitting a amount pledge
amount changed event here. All right. So
that's simple enough. That's the deposit
function. Now let's go ahead and move
into the withdraw function. Again, we're
we're defining the state and recipient
doing some checks here and saying,
"Hey, if this sale is still running or
if the campaign is still running, cannot
make a withdrawal." Again, we're doing
the client or we're defining the token
here, calling transfer on the token
transferring it from the recipient or
transferring it from the crowdfund
contract address right over to the
recipient address. And yeah, moving
forward, we're going to set the smart
contract storage set user deposited
to zero. all deposits across all
excuse me, deposits across the smart
contract storage should be reset back to
zero. and the events will be emitted
to reflect the changes that were just
made.
All right, cool. So, let's go ahead and
see how this works in action., one
cool thing about this repo is that it
comes set up with some really easy to
follow directions., let's go ahead
and dive into the package.json file.
Here you could see that there is a reset
function that's going to run mpm run
clean and npm run setup. If we look at
mpm run setup, all that's going to do is
run the initialize.s sh script.
So, I'm going to go ahead and dive into
the initialize.sh script or initialize
shell script rather and just kind of
break down what's going on here. First
things first, we're going to define a
path, a new path for a binary file.
That's because we're actually going to
be installing the Stellar CLI as a
binary file within the project directory
itself. That way you can leverage a
pinned version of the Stellar CLI to
make sure that the that the kind of
tutorial if you will or deployment of
all smart contracts and front end of the
DAP does not fail. It must be pinned to
a certain version that is compatible
with the Stellar or the Sorbon SDK
rather. All right. So you see in setup
we are running the initialize.sh file.
again let's go ahead and dive back
into that.
Where are we at? Initialize.sh. All
right. So that's where we were. line
nine, we're defining the binary path
file. that's because we're going to
use the Stellar CLI as a binary, right?
We'll kind of like gloss over this a
little bit. just know that it is
stationed in the target bin
directory. Cool. And that's going to run
cargo installer, which is again going to
install a pinned version of the Stellar
CLI.
real quick. We're going to be able to
pass in some values when making the
call. if you look at here, we're
saying initialize
shell and then we're defining the
network as test net. excuse me. The
script here makes it super easy by
allowing us to type in the value
standalone futureet or testn net and
we'll kind of have these preconfigured
values for the endpoint and
appropriate RPC host URLs defined in
the script. So when you pass in the
argument standalone future or testn net,
it'll quickly plug those arguments in
and define that for you to save you time
a little bit later. All right,
we're defining a network by using the
RPC URL and passphrase. And here we're
actually going to write some of the
data, the deployment data to a folder
in the directory called sorbomb. All
right, so that's all that's happening
there. Here on line 87, we're generating
a new identity called token admin by
using Stellar keys. if the Stellar
token admin identity already exists,
we're going to skip over this. But if
not, we're going to generate a new
identity using the keys method again.
Stellar keys generate token admin and
we're going to do that on the test
network. All right, so I'm going to
start moving through a little bit faster
because we are reaching about 15
minutes out from the hour. So hang in
there. All right. So, we're defining the
Stellar keys address as the token admin
was it called token admin identity
we just created through the Stellar keys
generate method. we're funding that
this this should actually this is
redundant because we actually fund it
when calling the generate method. Next
up, we're deploying the abundance token
which is just a Soroban token. We use
this as a mock token for
demonstrating a mint and deposit
capabilities. after this so we deploy
both the abundance token so random
Soroban mock token and the crowdfund ID
or excuse me the crowdfund smart
contract. This kicks back a crowdfund ID
which we then use later to generate
TypeScript bindings. all right so we
got some messages here some success
messages that kick back the ID and then
we write that ID to a directory
calledsorbon.
Last but not least, at the very end of
the script, we initialize the abundance
token. We give the name abundance a
new symbol, set the decimal places, give
it give it the name abundance, and
then we set the admin as the new
identity we just recently generated.
After this, finally, last but not least,
we initialize the crowdfund contract. We
set a deadline for about one 86,400
seconds is one week from now. and we say
Stellar contract invoke and we're
calling the initialize function.
So going through the setter functions
again you we're setting the recipient
key as the admin address that's the
value setting the value of the key
deadline as the deadline value target
amount key will be set to the value of I
think this is 10,000 or 1,000 tokens I
believe and the token is going to be the
abundance token that we just deployed.
So, I say all that to say this. Let's go
ahead and run mpm run reset and we'll
just go ahead and see what happens here.
By the way, thank you so much for
sticking with me thus far. I know
these sessions can be quite long, but
I'm really hoping that you guys are
learning a lot and again really happy
that you guys are sticking with me
throughout this journey.,
real quick, I kind of wanted to do a a a
re a recap over the freighter
connection kind of lesson here.
So, if you remember we in we
implemented freighter through the
following ways, right? we actually
used the method get user info, right?
So, if you remember, we use get get user
info and we return the public key.
That's exactly what we're doing in this
application here. We go to the wallet
data component. You see use account
and use is mounted.
Now wallet data is going to use both of
these hooks. But if we go back into use
accounting
at the end of the day is using get user
info right from the Stellar API and then
return returning these objects. So
that's how we're able to use the
that's how we're able to use freighter
to return the public key.
And let's go ahead and dive into some
of the main functionalities of the
front-end components that require
some of the logic from Freigher to sign
some transactions.
yeah, let's go ahead and do that
right now.
So if we look at the form pledge, I
believe form pledge
Is this it? Yes. We look at the form
pledge component here. this is
actually going going to contain a button
that's going to allow us to mint the
abundance token. So again that mock
token that we're using this is how
we're going to access the mint function.
So if you see on click async set
submitting equals true const transaction
again equals await abundance mint and
again we're able to do this because
when we create typescript bindings we're
creating node modules for our smart
contracts right so the abundance smart
contract has the method mint which we're
able to leverage because of the
typescript bindings again they have the
SDKs installed on the back end on the
back side of of the node modules and
they're able to communicate with the
Stellar blockchain by kind of
creating the the calls by hand using
JavaScript all to abstract away
development cycles for you and save you
time. All right, so we have two which is
the account and then amount. and then
we're defining the public key as the
public key that's returned by freighter.
and this is the key that we're using
to sign.
All right. And that logic continues with
both with both calls. So you see, let
me try to track this down real quick. So
that was the mint function. And now you
should see the deposit function, right?
Crowdfund. Let's just go ahead and do a
quick search. Deposits is not in this
one. Deposits
for molecules. Deposit deposit
transaction set balance prop address
form pledge. We should see a deposit
function in here.
Yep. So transaction fund deposit. and
then we're going to pass in the user and
the amount. Same as before, we're
calling the public key or await public
get public key method to pretty much
pass in the serer there. and that's
going to be because of freighter. So
we're going to say mpm rundev. Let's
hope everything works.
I'm hoping.
All right. Shared contracts.
one more one second real quick. Let
me go ahead and I actually have to run
contract bindings.
All right. So here we have to run yarn
run and say bindings.
Okay.
So, one quick hiccup here. During the
the deployment process when we ran
initialize, it actually didn't run the
binding script. just full
transparency, we're going to be
deploying this to versel. And there is a
quick issue with the original
package.json file that comes with the
pre-install command. Now, this
pre-install command will actually build
the TypeScript bindings for you.,
which is required for the front-end
deployment. So, I deleted that call and
that's kind of like why we're seeing
that error here because there's no
TypeScript bindings for the abundance
contract. But, let's go ahead and run
this dev function again and see if
that worked. It should work.
Okay,
that was very close., good thing the
demo effect did not get us today.
All right, and you can see my wallet
address here., this means that
freighter is hooked into or the
freighter API is hooked into the
front-end component., so this is
refle reflecting properly. Let's go
ahead and try this mint. Okay. So,
Freigher actually doesn't allow
websites that don't have an SSL
certificate to make calls. So, what we
have to do here is we have to transfer
this over to a production a
production type of deployment. So, stick
with me here.
What we're going to do is we're going to
remove the target rm. RF target.
All right. So we're going to move the
target directory
and we're going to use Verscell to
deploy the the front end. So I
already have Verscell on my machine.
but if you don't, you'd have to run MPM
I Verscell or MPMI-G
to install Versel globally.
Now I'll just quickly run Verscell. I
have it installed globally. Here we're
going to in set up and deploy this
app here. We can say yes.
Yep. I don't want to link to a project.
I don't want to link to an existing
project. I'm going to give this a new
name. We're going to say u Soroban
example DAP. So said and we're going to
say 07. Yeah, for July. So said07.
We're going to go ahead and deploy this.
Set up the project here.
All right, we don't want to modify any
of these settings. So, we'll say no. And
we're going to go ahead and wait for
this deployment to kind of build and be
set up to production.
It's going to take a little while.
All right, just kind of waiting for a
quick sec.
I do want to open this up to the side to
make sure that there's no problems.
I don't think it should have an issue.
Make sure freigher is logged in. All
right, we're logged in. G7 CKTV.
All right, so the deployment is ready.
It did not crash.
And we can actually you can actually
access it through this URL here.
So I'll I'll be happy to share that.
Let's go ahead and connect wallet. All
right. So, first time connecting to a
website. Freigher is going to send this
popup and say, "Hey, do you trust this
website?" I'm going to go ahead and
connect it., I did click connect, but
it doesn't look like it was updated. So,
I'll do a quick refresh. You could see
my public key being illustrated here,
being displayed here. I'm going to go
ahead and click the mint 100 abundance
token button. All right. And look at
that fee. 189. All right. So Stellar is
about 0.1 cents right now, right? So 10
cents. and 0.1 I mean you got to
imagine that is such a low fee. and
that that can really help out
startups and just users in general,
right? Why charge users an arm and a leg
for fees? All right, so that call went
through and you can see that the balance
has been updated to 100 abundance
tokens., so that was the mint
function. And again, just quick recap
because I'm super proud of this., we
went through the mint function earlier,
right? Mint function. We'll say,,
where are we here? Amount input pledge.
I'm so hyped. I can't even remember
where we were., okay. So, amount
inputs,
author info button, connect button,
deposits, right?
Whoops. So, let's just say mint.
All right.
So, here we are in the form pledge.
Excuse me, everyone. But again, so
again, I was super excited. Couldn't
figure out where we were in the code,
but this is where we want to be. Line 49
in the form pledge file into the
molecules directory. You see con
transaction equals await abundance mint.
And that's what we called right from the
front end when we called the mint
function. Right from here, this is all
the logic that happened. We passed in
the account which was determined by
connecting with freighter and the amount
which is predetermined within the
code itself. So we're just we're just
saying the amount is going to be 100.
All right. So,
now that we have 100 abundance tokens in
our balance, go ahead and back this
project with 100 abundance tokens, let's
go ahead and review the call., and
then we're going to we're going to see
here that the contract is receiving the
tokens and the sender is going to be the
address or the wallet that we're using
and we're going to be sending 100
Abundance tokens. So, we'll go ahead and
approve and continue. We'll sign the
transaction
and we'll hope it goes through. Boom.
The campaign has made or we've made a
100 abundance token deposit right to
the campaign and we have concluded
the campaign itself because our goal was
100 abundance tokens. And yeah, as you
can see, this was updated in real time
because of the subscription hook that
is actually in the boiler plate itself.
All right, so
that is my time. in conclusion, you
know, I highly suggest that you guys
check out the docs that you can find
them at Stellar.orgdevelopers.
And if you guys have any questions then
please please please join the Stellar
discord. there is a developer channel
there. There's also a help channel there
and we are always ready to answer any of
the questions that you guys have along
your Stellar development journey. Once
again my name is Julian Martinez senior
de excuse me once again my name is
Julian Martinez senior developer
advocate and common man here at SDF.,
again, thank you guys so much for
being with me, weathering the storm.
It's been a great hour of diving into
DAP development., I hope you guys
learned something and, until next
time, take care. Bye.